## To be submitted on Friday(May 5, 2023)
1. What do you think is the fundamental role of parents to their children? What is your picture of a healthy and ideal family? Is this attainable? By your conviction, how to fulfill this when your time comes?

### Ans:
In my opinion the fundamental role of parents to their children is as mentors plus caregivers. They support, love and understand their children as well as be a mentor for them. As a mentor they give wisdom to their children about what they've encountered in their lives. This way, the children will learn early on what they should and should not do. When it comes to a healthy and ideal family, I can think of one that isn't just financially stable but a family of means; they don't just survive but thrive; they have few to no family problems; they are complete, they are happy with each other; and they rarely fight. According to my observations, this type of family is unattainable; families, no matter how close they are, fight with each other and face various problems in their lives. In my opinion, having a healthy and ideal family can be difficult. Nonetheless, achieving a happy family, which is somewhat close to a healthy and ideal family, is possible. As I mentioned earlier that every family will experience, but its the families ability to cope and adapt can they achieve happiness. As what Aristotle said, every human beings goal is to achieve happiness.

## To be submitted on Wednesday(May 10, 2023)
2. Do you agree the legalization of divorce in the Philippines? defend your answer.