>The flag was sewn by Marcela Marino De Agoncillo, Lorenza Agoncillo, and Delfina Herbosa De Natividad

The flag was first flown in the battle on May 28, 1898. They formally unfurled during the Proclamation of Philippine Independence and the flag of the Philippine Republic.
## The many Declarations of the Philippines' Independence
- In **August 1896**, during the Cry of Pugadlawin, Bonifacio and members of the Katipunan also shouted their proclamation of Philippine independence, which was symbolized by their tearing of cedulas, an act that represented their emancipation from Spain’s colonial rule.

-  **June 12, 1898**, Emilio Aguinaldo proclaimed the Philippines’ independence in Kawit, Cavite. It was also the day when the Philippine flag was first shown and waved, and the Marcha Nacional Filipina, which became the music to the Philippines national anthem, was first heard. Aguinaldo’s proclamation of Philippine independence was formalized with the document, Acta de la Proclamation de la Independencia del Pueblo Filipino (Act of the Proclamation of Independence of the Filipino People), which was read by its author, Ambrosio Rianzares Bautista. The document is 21 pages long and was signed by 98 Filipinos.

- On **August 1, 1898**, Aguinaldo's proclamation was ratified by 190 town heads from 16 provinces around the country, giving it legitimacy and power.

- On **October 14, 1943**, Japan symbolically granted independence to the Philippines by establishing a new government headed by its Filipino president, Jose P. Laurel. The government was branded by historians as “Puppet Government” because of the tight control that the Japanese wielded over its affairs.


## June 12, 1898
### Why Do We Celebrate Philippine Independence Day on June 12?
When the Americans decided to grand independence to the Philippines, they made it so it coincided with their own independence day every July 4. It was not a coincidence; they could have chosen the other 364 dates on the calendar, but they chose July 4 as the Philippines' Independence Day.

On May 12, 1962, **President Diosdado Macapagal** moved the commermoration of the Independence Day from July 4 to June 12. Because of it, many people during that time accused him of politicizing the holiday.

### President Macapagal's Reason On Changing the Philippine independence Day
In an address on June 12, 1962, Macapagal explained why he moved Philippines’ Independence Day from July 4, 1946 to June 12, 1898.

“Let me avail of this opportunity to disabuse the minds of those who suggest that the transfer of our commemoration of independence was prompted by the action of the American Congress in backing out of a material commitment and obligation to our people,” he said.

According to Macapagal, it was only correct to recognize June 12 as the country’s true independence day because it was the birthday of the independent Filipino nation. Its proclamation, as explained earlier, had the unprecedented support, unity, and resolve of various leaders from local governments nationwide.

Source: https://www.esquiremag.ph/long-reads/why-philippines-independence-day-is-on-june-12-a00293-20190607-lfrm

## July 4, 1946
The outbreak of the Spanish-American War in 1898 brought Commodore George Dewey and the US Asiatic Squadron to Manila Bay, where they defeated the Spanish Asiatic fleet. The Philippine Revolution resumed in earnest, led by General Emilio Aguinaldo who established a revolutionary government.

The Spanish-American war was concluded by the Treaty of Paris which decreed that Spain would give up the Philippines, but in turn the archipelago would become a colony of the United States.

After over two years of fighting, Aguinaldo was captured and President Theodore Roosevelt declared the end of the Philippine-American War. The campaign for independence continued on the political front, even as sporadic violent resistance against American rule continued to break out.

In August 1916, the Jones Law, more formally known as the Philippine Autonomy Act of 1916, was passed, promising independence to the Philippines once Filipinos were able to prove that they could govern themselves.

Once the United States declared war on Germany in World War I, Philippine political leaders offered a division of Filipinos to fight on the side of the United States. Filipinos were given great leeway in running the government at that time, but once the Great War ended, the US government reexamined Philippine conditions and strengthened American control of the insular government. Filipinos sent regular independence missions to Washington to call for concrete steps towards independence, which were rebuffed by the prevailing Republican administrations.

The advent of the Great Depression made Congress rethink US-Philippine relations, and passed the Hare-Hawes-Cutting Act in 1933, over President Herbert Hoover’s veto. The Hare-Hawes-Cutting Act (HHC) envisaged a 10 year transitory period during which time the Philippines would establish a semi-autonomous government under an elected Filipino president. The act was rejected by the Philippine Legislature later that year, after much debate and political wrangling. Manuel L. Quezon, President of the Philippine Senate, proceeded to Washington immediately after to negotiate a more advantageous law, citing among others issues relating to the continuance of US bases in the Philippines after independence, the limits of authority of the Philippine president in the transitory government, and the abrupt end of Philippine preferential trade relations with the United States.

Source: https://www.nationalww2museum.org/war/articles/july-4-1946-philippines-independence