
During the pandemic, it was said that tasks would be easier to complete because we, the students, have access to all of the information we require online. This is correct; online learning did not hinder my learning during the pandemic. It simply allowed me to learn in a new way. It was also convenient because we were in the comfort of our own homes, which gave me more energy to learn. During the pandemic, I developed new learning habits such as time management and integrating my learning with my daily leisure activities; what do I mean by this? When I'm resting, I watch lecture videos instead of watching random YouTube content unrelated to my academics. However, learning was not without difficulty.  Although, learning wasn't all that easy. Because of the online setup, the STEM strand has subjects that require laboratory work. This resulted in limited learning because we lacked the necessary equipment to perform the majority of the laboratory work outlined in our textbook.



Our goal, like that of any other IT student, is to become an IT professional in the fields that interest us. Since I began programming in eighth grade, I've wanted to work in IT. I became somewhat "addicted" to the various topics offered by the world of information technology. Since grade 8, I've been dabbling in various IT-related topics, ranging from programming and networking to operating systems and digital forensics. Since then, I've had a wonderful journey that has allowed me to grow and learn about myself. As a result, I was able to complete the challenges that led me to where I am now. I will continue to work hard to achieve my goals because I believe that the things I want are on the other side of hard work.