## Instructions
Make a reaction paper about the movie entitled "Donald Duck in Mathmagic Land". The reaction paper should have at least 650 words or more.

## Brief Details about the film
**Donald in Mathmagic Land** is an 1959 American animated-live-action featurette produced by Walt Disney Productions and featuring Donald Duck. The short was directed by Hamilton Lusk(with Wolfgang Reitherman, Les Clark, and Joshua Meador as sequence directors) and was released on June 26, 1959. It was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Documentary(Short Subject) at the 32nd Academy Awards, and became a widely views educational film in American schools of the 1960s and beyond.

## Reaction Paper

### Part 1: A summary of the work
This film entitled **_Donald in Mathmagic Land_** is a American animated-live-action featurette produced by Walt Disney Productions and featuring Donald Duck. It became a widely viewed educational film in American schools of the 1960s and beyond. In the film Donald learns about mathematics and its use cases while traversing through Mathmagic Land guided by a mysterious narrator. I found Donald's question funny "What is math useful for anyway?" and how mathematics is part of everything around us yet this question is always asked even for experience mathematicians, who are always finding solutions to problems using mathematics. Even in the little details of our world we can see patterns, and shapes forming. From the shape of the buildings, to the patterns of a peacocks tail. Even on the discovery of shapes and new technology which, of course, was because of mathematics. In the film they showed Pythagoras is the father of mathematics and music, it showed that what he discovered, which was the two to one ratio, can be presented as scales. They also addressed some of the Pythagora's concepts like the mysteries of the "Golden Rectangle", ratio, pentagrams, etc. An how it was applied in our environment. The examples given in the truly makes the phrase "Mathematics is life" accurate. 

### Part 2: Your reaction to the work
This film reminded me of my childhood, on how I used to watch this kinds of shows and how I would struggle in mathematics because I was too lazy to study. But fortunately, I have strict parents who forced me to study.  It was wonderful to see how Walt Disney portrayed mathematics that was relatable, easy to understand and enjoyable to watch, especially for the younger generation. It was astonishing to see how the father of mathematics and music was able to imagine such shapes and create music based on math without any other musical references. It's fascinating to think about have Pythagoras was able to see patterns around us and use those patters for his concepts. 

As for the Animation, it was is spectacular during its time as well the plot, you can really see why it was used as an educational film. Even in today's standards it can be coined as "not outdated" as the plot has a great education significance to society. This film really gave students a new perspective of mathematics, not only as a tool for you daily live but also for your imagination and curiosity. Its outstanding to think how old and broad mathematics is; how it came to be and how it became a language of the universe. I found the Donald's personality and action to be very funny, the way he stubbornly does things and learns form his mistakes fast is what makes him a wonderful character.

As I said earlier, about how it changes how you see math. It also makes arithmetic, and math in general, more interesting as it was shown in a adventurous nature. If I was a elementary school student studying math I would also be astonished and be curious on the world of mathematics. Even know, a college student, watching this video made me curious on how broad math is. 

In the film, Donald Discovers how music, more specifically the Pythagoras's contribution to the mathematical theory of music, was made. It was when Pythagoras used the theory of proportions for his musical instrument, which was the lyre. With this, he used music as a means to entertain people. 

As shows in the film, Pythagoras discovered the "Golden Rectangle" which is seen in most objects today, like buildings, paintings, statues, etc. This again astonishes me, because if not for this film I would have not seen a clearer detail of the proportions used in those objects.  

In conclusion, 