In the real world we use signatures to check the validity of something. Let's say you own a house and you want to ensure that there are fire sprinklers in the kitchen so you hire someone. You make a contract for the Job, both you and the plumber sign that contract. This contract ensures that the work will be done and the payment will be paid. So if you don't pay or the plumber doesn't who up to install a sprinkler system and you kitchen catches on fire, therefore it violated the contract, and when you go to court the judge can see the signature and punish the violator.

In the digital world we have a similar approach, its called a **Digital Signature**.

## How is it made?
A digital signature is cryptographic technique that provides a way to verify the authenticity and integrity of the digital message or resource, document, etc. Making one combines both hash functions and asymmetric encryption. Here is a general overview of how a Digital Signature is made:
1. Create a hash value or message digest on the message/resource/document you want to send. 
2. Using your private key, you encrypt the hash value that was generated.
3. With the cipher text generated by the private key, you then embed it into the original message/resource/document that you want to send. 
4. Then you send that message/resource/document to the recipient, along with your public key, if the recipient hasn't already got one. 

### How does the recipient verify the validity of the message
1. Once the recipient receives the  message and has the public key, he/she then decrypts the ciphertext embedded in the message using the public key provided by the sender.
2. The recipient then performs a hash on the message received and then runs the same hash function the sender used.
3. The recipient then compares the hash value generated with the hash value that was embedded in the document. If it matches then the receiver is now sure that the message is valid. 


## What are Digital Certificate
