# 1.2 Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators to determine the type of attack

### Topics

- [x]  Malware
    - [x]  Ransomeware
    - [x]  Trojans
    - [x]  Worms
    - [x]  Potentially unwanted programs(PUPs)
    - [x]  File less Virus
    - [x]  Command and Control
    - [x]  Bots
    - [x]  Crypto malware
    - [x]  Logic bombs
    - [x]  Spyware
    - [x]  Keyloggers
    - [x]  Remote access trojans
    - [x]  Rootkit
    - [x]  Backdoor

- Password attacks
    - [x]  Spraying
    - [x]  Dictionary
    - [x]  Brute force [Offline, Online]
    - [x]  Rainbow table
    - [x]  Plaintext/unencrypted
- Physical Attacks
    - [x]  Malicious Universal serial bus cable
    - [x]  Malicious flash drive
    - [x]  Card Cloning
    - [x]  Skimming
- Adversarial artificial intelligence
    - [x]  Tainted training data for machine learning
    - [x]  Security of machine learning algorithms
- [x]  Supply-chain attacks
- [x]  Cloud-based vs on-premises attacks
- [x]  Cryptographic attacks [Birthday, collision, downgrade] ^475448

---

# Malware



> [!NOTE] 💡 General Steps to protect against malware:
> 1. Always update software.
> 2. Be careful when opening links
> 3. Use Antivirus
> 4. Always keep backups.
> 5. Don’t trust pop up windows that asks to download software.
> 6. Be careful of free software and resources.

**Malware** refers to software that has been designed for some nefarious purpose. These are software designed to cause damage to a system in way like unsolicited deleting of files.

## Types of Malware

**Ransomware** — Is a form of malware that perform action and extracts a ransom from the user. This usually works by encrypting files on the system as well as network attached or external backups. Ransomware is typically a worm and when targeted as a means of denial of service, the only repair mechanism is to rebuild the system.  

Usually users are asked to contact the attacker via an anonymous email address or follow instructions on an anonymous web page, to make payment. The payment is invariably demanded in a cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin, in order to unlock your computer, or access your data. 

One recent version of ransomware is ***crypto malware*** or ***crypto ransomware*** is one of the recent forms of malware that attacks a computer by restricting the user's access to files stored in the computer. 

**`Mitigation steps: always have backups that are not connected to the internet or your devices. One way to protect against ransomware is to keep a backuk of your data, keep your system and applications up to date and, keep you anti-virus or anti-malware up to date with the latest signatures.`** 

**Trojan horse** — is a piece of software that appears to do one thing (and may, in fact, actually do that thing) but hides some other functionality. A Trojan is designed to damage, disrupt, steal, or in general inflict some other harmful action on your data or network. A trojan acts like a bona fide application or file to trick you. It seeks to deceive you into loading and executing the malware on your device. Once installed, a Trojan can perform the action it was designed for. 

A trojan acts like a bona fide application or file to trick you. It seeks to deceive you into loading and executing the malware on your device. Once installed, a trojan can perform the action it was designed for.

Multiple times this action is to download other software to your e.g., potentially unwanted programs (PUPs). Potentially unwanted programs are programs that does not need to be malicious but it is not desirable an it may cause problems in your computer e.g., a browser tool bar.

On a trojan has access to a system a very common action is to install a ***backdoor*** into the systems. A backdoor is a malware that provides a non-conventional method by which authorized and unauthorized users are able to get around normal security measures and gain high level user access (aka root access) on a computer system, network or software application.

A specific type of backdoor are ***remote access Trojans***. A remote access trojan (RAT) is a malware program that includes a back door for administrative control over the target computer. RATs are usually downloaded invisibly with a user-requested program - such as a game - or sent as an email attachment.

Once a remote access trojan has infiltrated a computer, the cyber criminal can gain remote access, monitoring or even controlling the device or the network. And once they have this access, there is no limit to what the cyber criminal can do; they have complete, anonymous control.

`Prevention of trojan infestation follow similar guidelines than any other malware.`

**Virus** — its malware that needs a user to replicate itself. Examples of viruses:

**Program Viruses** - it’s part of the application. This is malicious code or program used to alter the way a computer operates and is designed to spread from one computer to another.

**Boot sector viruses** - it exist in the boot sector and when the OS boots that virus runs. As the name suggests it infects the floppy disk or master boot record of the hard disk (some infect the boot sector of the hard disk instead of the MBR).

**Script Viruses** - usually operating system or browser based. This is a kind of virus that executes after a user visits a page that has advertisements, files or code running in the background that contains malicious code.

**Macro Virus** - usually runs in an application commonly Microsoft office application. A macro virus is a computer virus written in the same macro language used for software applications, such as word processors. Microsoft Word and Excel are two examples of applications that feature powerful macro languages, which are embedded in documents so they run automatically when the documents are open. A macro virus subsequently releases a chain of events in conjunction with the application.

**Fileless Virus** - Fileless malware is a type of malicious software that does not rely on virus-laden files to infect a host. Instead, it exploits applications that are commonly used for legitimate and justified activity to execute malicious code in resident memory

`Appropriately updated with the last signatures can help stop virus from infect the systems.`

**Worms** — unlike viruses which requires a user to start the malware, worms are user independent, they don’t need a user to execute and often these kinds of malware find network vulnerabilities and breach the network automatically infecting devices inside the network. Worms can modify and delete files, and they can even inject additional malicious software onto a computer. Sometimes a computer worm’s purpose is only to make copies of itself over and over — depleting system resources, such as hard drive space or bandwidth, by overloading a shared network. In addition to wreaking havoc on a computer’s resources, worms can also steal data, install a backdoor, and allow a hacker to gain control over a computer and its system settings.

**Potentially Unwanted Program (PUP)** — Potentially undesirable software that might cause performance problems for you computer.

**Rootkits** — Rootkits are a type of malware that are designed so that they can remain hidden on your computer. But while you might not notice them, they are active. Rootkits give cybercriminals the ability to remotely control your computer.

Rootkits can contain a number of tools, ranging from programs that allow hackers to steal your passwords to modules that make it easy for them to steal your credit card or online banking information. Rootkits can also give hackers the ability to subvert or disable security software and track the keys you tap on your keyword, making it easy for criminals to steal your personal information.

Because rootkits can hijack or subvert security software, they are especially hard to detect, making it likely that this type of malware could live on your computer for a long time causing significant damage. Sometimes the only way to completely eliminate a well-hidden rootkit is to erase your computer’s operating system and rebuild from scratch.

### **Types of rootkits**

- **Hardware or firmware rootkit**: The name of this type of rootkit comes from where it is installed on your computer. This type of malware could infect your computer’s hard drive or its system BIOS, the software that is installed on a small memory chip in your computer’s motherboard. It can even infect your router. Hackers can use these rootkits to intercept data written on the disk.
- **Bootloader rootkit**: Your computer’s bootloader is an important tool. It loads your computer’s operating system when you turn the machine on. A bootloader toolkit, then, attacks this system, replacing your computer’s legitimate bootloader with a hacked one. This means that this rootkit is activated even before your computer’s operating system turns on.
- **Memory rootkit**: This type of rootkit hides in your computer’s RAM. These rootkits will carry out harmful activities in the background. The good news? These rootkits have a short lifespan. They only live in your computer’s RAM and will disappear once you reboot your system — though sometimes further work is required to get rid of them.
- **Application rootkit**: Application rootkits replace standard files in your computer with rootkit files. They might also change the way standard applications work. These rootkits might infect programs such as Word, Paint, or Notepad. Every time you run these programs, you will give hackers access to your computer. The challenge here is that the infected programs will still run normally, making it difficult for users to detect the rootkit.
- **Kernel mode rootkits**: These rootkits target the core of your computer’s operating system. Cybercriminals can use these to change how your operating system functions. They just need to add their own code to it. This can give them easy access to your computer and make it easy for them to steal your personal information.

`Rootkits due to its nature are very difficult to find and remove. Some general advice is:`

- `Look for unusual processes running.`
- `Use a remover specific to the rootkit.`
- `Secure boot with UEFI, that it is security implemented in the BIOS.`

**Adware** — Adware, or advertising supported software, is software that displays unwanted advertisements on your computer. Adware programs will tend to serve you pop-up ads, can change your browser’s homepage, add spyware and just bombard your device with advertisements. Adware is a more succinct name for potentially unwanted programs. It is not quite a virus and it may not be as obviously malicious as a lot of other problematic code floating around on the Internet.

**Spyware** — Spyware is unwanted software that infiltrates your computing device, stealing your internet usage data and sensitive information. Spyware is classified as a type of malware - malicious software designed to gain access to or damage your computer, often without your knowledge.

**Bots and Botnets** — A botnet is a number of Internet-connected devices, each of which is running one or more bots. Botnets can be used to perform distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks, steal data, send spam, and allow the attacker to access the device and its connection.

Botnet owners can have access to several thousand computers at a time and can command them to carry out malicious activities. Cybercriminals initially gain access to these devices by using special Trojan viruses to attack the computers’ security systems, before implementing ***command and control*** software to enable them to carry out malicious activities on a large scale. These activities can be automated to encourage as many simultaneous attacks as possible.

`Some recommendations to protect against botnet attacks are:`

- `Use a Firewall`
- `Update your software and systems to the latest version`
- `Get protection that works at DNS-level`
- `Manage admin rights in your organization`

**Logic Bombs** — A logic bomb is a sinister piece of code that is secretly inserted into a computer network, operating system, or a software application. Like any other malicious code, its primary goal is to wreak havoc on your system – steal or corrupt your data, crash or overtake your device, or completely wipe your hard drive.

However, the main difference between a logic bomb and other malicious software is that the former can lie dormant for years. It is designed to execute its code only when certain conditions are met. For example, after a specified date and time, when a specific file is opened, or when it is deleted.

**Keylogger** — Key-loggers are a type of monitoring software designed to record keystrokes made by a user. One of the oldest forms of cyber threat, these keystroke loggers record the information you type into a website or application and send to back to a third party.

# Password Attacks
A ***password attack*** is simply when a hacker tries to steal your password. Password attacks are one of the most common forms of corporate and personal data breach.

Because passwords can only contain so many letters and numbers, passwords are becoming less safe. Hackers know that many passwords are poorly designed, so password attacks will remain a method of attack as long as passwords are being used. In addition, there are still application with a poor password management policy where passwords get stored in ***plaintext*** or ***unencrypted***.

Passwords should be stored in it hashed form. A hash function is a mathematical algorithm that maps data of arbitrary size, usually called **'*message*'**, to a bit array of a fixed size, usually called **'*message digest*'** or **'*fingerprint*'**. It is a one-way practically infeasible to invert function and they are a basic tool of modern cryptography.

The simple idea behind is that every message gets encrypted using the hash function on a fingerprint and, every different message generates a different fingerprint if the hashing function has not collisions (*ideal case*).

**Spraying** — Password spraying is an attack that attempts to access a large number of accounts (usernames) with a few commonly used passwords. During a password-spray attack, also known as the "low-and-slow" method, the malicious actor attempts a single commonly used password against many accounts before moving on to attempt a second password, and so on. This technique allows the actor to remain undetected by avoiding rapid or frequent account lockouts.

**Dictionary** — A dictionary attack attempts to guess/crack user passwords by taking a dictionary of commonly used passwords <u>instead of blindly trying out all permutations</u>. In contrast to brute force attacks, this attacks only uses common permutations of password; which greatly decreases the number of attempts.

The premise behind a dictionary attack is that most users will not choose random strings as their passwords - they will choose words or combinations of words with meaning, to make the password easier to remember.

**Brute force (Offline, Online)** — A brute force attack tries every possible combination of passwords for a a single account. These are very risky because common applications have a limited number of try’s to type your password. These attacks can take place **Online** or **Offline. In case of offline attacks, the attacker has access to the encrypted material or a password hash and tries different keys without the risk of discovery or interference. Online attacks work what I described previously, an attack attempts to guess every possible combination of password in a single account online; this is an old method of an attack and only works with password that are very common and/or short length.**

`These can be mitigated by: Limiting the number of attempts, requiring complex logins like requiring to send a verification code to the phone otherwise known as 2 step verification, longer passwords and time delay between every attempt.`

Rainbow table — A rainbow table attack is a type of hacking wherein the perpetrator tries to use a rainbow hash table to crack the passwords stored in a database system. A rainbow table is a hash function used in cryptography for storing important data such as passwords in a database. In other words, it is a pre-built optimized set of hashes.

One of the advantages of the use of rainbow tables is the remarkable speed increase especially with longer password lengths.

One of the challenges is that different applications use different hashing methods what creates the need of having different rainbow tables.

### Making passwords more secure

On common method to increase the robustness of hashed password is to add a *salt to the hashing*.

In cryptography, a **salt** is random data that is used as an additional input to a one-way function that hashes data, a password or passphrase. Salts are used to safeguard passwords in storage.

A new salt is randomly generated for each password. In a typical setting, the salt and the password are concatenated and processed with a cryptographic hash function, and the output hash value is stored with the salt in a database.

Salts defend against a pre-computed hash attack, e.g., rainbow tables.  Since salts are different in each case, they also protect commonly used passwords, or those users who use the same password on several sites, by making all salted hash instances for the same password different from each other.

# Physical Attacks

**Malicious Universal serial bus cable** — This attack uses a maliciously customized USB cable to infect a device. This cable usually look like a normal USB cable but with an chip inside it that gives it additional functionality e.g. key-logger, virus injector, spyware.

**Malicious flash drive** — With increasing pressure to limit network access to organisations, computers or systems, the dependence upon USB removable media to transfer files, patches and updates has been increased. In addition, they are a very common way for users to exchange information or files. This has transform a USB device in a powerful attack vector that can be used to attack systems directly using the USB interface.

There are three main types of attack:

- **Malicious code**: In the most basic of USB drop attacks, the user clicks on one of the files on the drive. This unleashes a malicious code that automatically activates upon viewing and can download further malware from the Internet.
- **Social engineering**: The file takes the thumb drive user to a phishing site, which tricks them into handing over their login credentials.
- **Human Interface Device (HID) spoofing**: In a more sophisticated attack, the device looks like a USB stick but in fact will trick the computer into thinking a keyboard is attached. When plugged into a computer, it injects keystrokes to command the computer to give a hacker remote access to the victim’s computer.

`As a countermeassure, do not plug USBs do not come from a trusted source.`

**Card Cloning** — Card cloning refers to the practice of making an unauthorized copy of a credit card. This practice is also sometimes called skimming. It requires copying information at a credit card terminal using an electronic device or software, then transferring the information from the stolen card to a new card or rewriting an existing card with the information.

**Skimming** — Skimming is a method used by identity thieves to capture payment and personal information from a credit card holder. Several approaches can be used by fraudsters to procure card information, with the most advanced approach involving a small device called a skimmer that reads the information stored in a card's magnetic strip or microchip.

# Adversarial Artificial Intelligence

Cyber criminals are utilizing artificial intelligence to launch more effective attacks or, attacking the source of data machine learning algorithms are using to alter or influence the training of the algorithms.

In general, cybersecurity is an adversarial and adaptive activity. It follows that ML used for cybersecurity purposes is itself vulnerable to adversarial manipulation—that is, attackers may learn enough about the ML model to design ways of tricking or altering it to render it ineffective for defense.

One of this adversarial attacks is ***Data poisoning***. Data poisoning is an adversarial attack that tries to manipulate the training dataset in order to control the prediction behavior of a trained model such that the model will label malicious examples into a desired classes, e.g., labeling spam e-mails as safe.

Tainted training data for machine learning - It is important when training algorithms to check and verify the data used, constantly re-train with new and verified data and, try to train the algorithm with possible poisoning data to try to predict what attacks could do.

# Supply-chain attacks

It is a [cyber-attack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber-attack) that seeks to damage an organization by targeting less-secure elements in the [supply chain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supply_chain). A supply chain attack can occur in any industry, from the financial sector, oil industry, to a government sector. Cyber criminals typically tamper with the manufacturing process of a product by installing a [rootkit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rootkit) or hardware-based spying components.

Attackers hunt for unsecured network protocols, unprotected server infrastructures, and unsafe coding practices. They break in, change source codes, and hide malware in build and update processes.

Because software is built and released by trusted vendors, these apps and updates are signed and certified. In software supply chain attacks, vendors are likely unaware that their apps or updates are infected with malicious code when they are released to the public. The malicious code then runs with the same trust and permissions as the app.

# Cloud-based vs on-premises attacks

Nowadays business can decide whether to store their data on the cloud or on-premises. One might argue of which is more secure, but attackers don’t care where the data is stored and a business must make sure that data is secure.

On-premises servers are the traditional enterprise computing model. In this implementation, all hardware and software resides in house. A business purchases and maintains its own servers, located in a secure, climate-controlled room onsite.

Cloud solutions mean that businesses rely on servers that exist offsite away from their offices. The cloud providers take care of maintenance, backups, software updates, power, and HVAC.

The security of the cloud vs. on-premises is a key consideration in this debate. Cloud security controls have historically been considered less robust than on-premises ones, but cloud computing is no longer a new technology. Nowadays, more and more businesses are trusting the cloud for their security needs. Both approaches have different advantages and disadvantages.

### On-premises

**Advantages**

1. Customize your security posture. Full control when everything is in house.
2. On-site IT team can manage security better. The local team can ensure everything is secure.
3. Local team maintains up-time and availability. System checks can occur at any time. No phone call for support.

**Disadvantages**

1. A local team can be expensive and difficult to stuff.
2. Security changes can take time. New equipment, configurations, and additional costs.
3. Difficult to have specialized members.

### Cloud-based

**Advantages**

1. Data is in a secure environment. No physical access to the data center.
2. Cloud providers are managing large-scale security. Automated signature and security updates.
3. Limited downtime. Extensive fault tolerance and 24/7/365 monitoring.
4. Salable security options. One-click security deployments.

**Disadvantages**

1. Third-party may have access to the data.
2. Users forced to follow security best-practices (*Is this bad?*)\
3. It may not be as customizable as necessary.

# Cryptographic attacks (Birthday, collision, Downgrade)

Cryptographic attacks are methods for circumventing the security of a cryptographic system by finding a weakness in a code, cipher, cryptographic protocol or key management scheme. This process is also called "crypt-analysis".

***Types of Cryptographic attacks***
#### Birthday Attack
A birthday attack is a type of cryptographic attack, which exploits the mathematics behind the birthday problem in probability theory. Birthday attack can be used in communication abusage between two or more parties. The attack depends on a fixed degree of permutations (pigeonholes) and the higher likelihood of collisions found between random attack attempts, as described in the birthday paradox/problem. 

As an example, consider the scenario in which a teacher with a class of 30 students asks for everybody's birthday (ignore leap years) to determine whether any two students have the same birthday, corresponding to a ***hash collision***. Intuitively, this chance may seem small. Counter-intuitively, the probability that at least one student has the same birthday as any other student on any day is around 70%.

A hash collision is when two different plaintexts have the same hash value. Collisions are bad because hash digests are supposed to be unique and, different input data should never create the same hash. This is why some hash algorithms such as MD5 are conspired not secure any more.

 #### **Downgrade attacks **
 
 A **downgrade attack**, also called a **bidding-down attack** [Wikipedia Article on Downgrade Attack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Downgrade_attack#cite_note-1) or **version rollback attack**, is a form of [cryptographic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptography) attack on a computer system or communications protocol that makes it abandon a high-quality mode of operation (e.g. an [encrypted connection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_protocol)) in favor of an older, lower-quality mode of operation (e.g. [cleartext](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plaintext)) that is typically provided for backward compatibility with older systems.

An example of such a flaw was found in OpenSSL that allowed the attacker to negotiate the use of a lower version of TLS between the client and server. This is one of the most common types of downgrade attacks. Another example is intercepting web traffic and redirecting the user from the secure, HTTPS version of a website to an unencrypted HTTP version.