# Network Attack Indicator

## Wireless
Wireless technology is very common networking technology that has substantial number of standards and processes to connect users to network via a radio signal, thus freeing machines from wires. As in all software systems, wireless networkig is a target for hackers.This is partly because of the simple fact that wireless removes the physical barrier.
#### Evil Twin
An **Evil Twin** attack is a spoofing cyberattack that works by tricking users into connecting to a fake Wi-Fi access point that mimics a legitimate network. Once a user is connected to an "evil twin" network, hackers can access everything from their network traffic to private login credentials. 

This attack uses an AP owned by an attacker that usually has been enhanced with higher-power and higher-gain antennas to look like a better connection to the users attaching to it.

This can give an attacker an opportunity to perfom man in the middle attacks. An attacker can also perfom DOS by jamming the wireless signal, not allowing any computer to connect to the access point successfully.

#### Rogue access point
A rougue access point is a device not sanctioned by an administrator, but is operating on the network anyway. This could be an access point set up by either an employee or by an intruder. The AP could also belong to a nearby company.

By setting up a **rogue access point**, an attacker can attempt to get clients to connet to it  as if it were authorized and  then simply authenticate to the real AP.


##### Difference between a rogue AP and Evil twin
A rogue AP is usually placed on an internal network either by accident or for nefarious reasons. It is not administered by the network owner or administrator. An evil twin is an AP that appears to be legitimate but isn't and is often used to eavesdrop on wireless communications.


#### Bluesnarfing
**Bluesnarfing** is similar to bluejacking in that is uses the same contact transmission protocol. It is a theft of information from a wireless device through a Bluetooth connection. The attacker copies off the victim's information.

Bluesnarfing used to require a laptop with bluetooth adapter, making it easy to identify a possible attacker, but bluesnarfing mobile apps are no available. Bloover, a combination of Bluetooth and Hoover is an example.

Attackers do it by sneaking into mobile devices, laptops, tablets, or PDA whose connection has been left open by thei owners. It implies exploiting Bluetooth vulnerabilities in order to grab such data as text or email messages, contact list, and more. It's easy to become a victim of bluesnarfing attack if you have the habit of using Bluetooth in public places and you phone is usually in discoverable mode.

#### Bluejacking
**Bluejacking** is a term used for sending of unauthorized messages to another Bluetooth device. This involves sending a message as phonebook contact. 

The attacker then sends the message to the possible recipient via Bluetooth. Originally, this involved sending text messages, but more recent phones can send images or audio as well. A popular variant of this is the transmission of “shock” images, featuring disturbing or crude photos. As Bluetooth is a short-range protocol, the attack and victim must be within roughly 10 yards of each other. The victim’s phone must also have Bluetooth enabled and must be in discoverable mode. On some early phones, this was the default configuration, and while it makes connecting external devices easier, it also allows attacks against the phone. If Bluetooth is turned off, or if the device is set to non-discoverable, bluejacking can be avoided.

Bluejacking can be prevented by setting a device to hidden, invisible or non-discoverable mode.

#### Disassociation
It is a type of DoS attack in which the attacker breaks the wireless connection between the victim device and the access point. The method is based on the use of special disassociation frame specified under the IEEE 802.11. Tranferring such frames to the target device breaks the connection, and the Wi-Fi protocol does not require any encryption for it. For a successful attack, the cybercriminal needs to know only the victim's MAC address.

These kinds of attacks are not typically used alone. For instance, if you disassiciate a connection and then sniff the reconnection, you can steal passwords. After a machine is disassociated, the use attempting to reestablish a WPA/WPA2/WPA3 session will need to repeat the four-way handshake.

Tool such as **Wifiphisher** are used to collect passwords.

#### Jamming
**Jamming** is a form of DoS that specifically targets the radio specturm aspect of wireless. Just as other DoS attacks can manupulate things behind the scenes, so can jamming on wireless AP, enabling action such as attaching to a rogue AP.

#### Radio frequency identification (RFID)


####  Near-field communication (NFC)
#### Initialization Vector(IV)

## On-path attacks(MiTM, MiTB)
## Layer 2 attacks
#### Address Resolution
#### Protocol (ARP) poisoning
#### Media access control (MAC) flooding
#### Mac cloning

## Domain name system(DNS)
#### Domain hijacking
#### DNS poisoning
#### Uniform Resource
#### Locator (URL) redirection
#### Domain reputation
## Distributed denial-of-service(DDoS)
#### Network
#### Application
#### Operational Technology(OT)
## Malicious code or script execution
#### Powershell
#### Python
#### Bash
#### Macros
#### Visual Basic Application