# Network Attack Indicator
```toc
```
## Wireless
Wireless technology is very common networking technology that has substantial number of standards and processes to connect users to network via a radio signal, thus freeing machines from wires. As in all software systems, wireless networkig is a target for hackers.This is partly because of the simple fact that wireless removes the physical barrier.
### Evil Twin
An **Evil Twin** attack is a spoofing cyberattack that works by tricking users into connecting to a fake Wi-Fi access point that mimics a legitimate network. Once a user is connected to an "evil twin" network, hackers can access everything from their network traffic to private login credentials. 

This attack uses an AP owned by an attacker that usually has been enhanced with higher-power and higher-gain antennas to look like a better connection to the users attaching to it.

This can give an attacker an opportunity to perfom man in the middle attacks. An attacker can also perfom DOS by jamming the wireless signal, not allowing any computer to connect to the access point successfully.

### Rogue access point
A rougue access point is a device not sanctioned by an administrator, but is operating on the network anyway. This could be an access point set up by either an employee or by an intruder. The AP could also belong to a nearby company.

By setting up a **rogue access point**, an attacker can attempt to get clients to connet to it  as if it were authorized and  then simply authenticate to the real AP.


##### Difference between a rogue AP and Evil twin
A rogue AP is usually placed on an internal network either by accident or for nefarious reasons. It is not administered by the network owner or administrator. An evil twin is an AP that appears to be legitimate but isn't and is often used to eavesdrop on wireless communications.


### Bluesnarfing
**Bluesnarfing** is similar to bluejacking in that is uses the same contact transmission protocol. It is a theft of information from a wireless device through a Bluetooth connection. The attacker copies off the victim's information.

Bluesnarfing used to require a laptop with bluetooth adapter, making it easy to identify a possible attacker, but bluesnarfing mobile apps are no available. Bloover, a combination of Bluetooth and Hoover is an example.

Attackers do it by sneaking into mobile devices, laptops, tablets, or PDA whose connection has been left open by thei owners. It implies exploiting Bluetooth vulnerabilities in order to grab such data as text or email messages, contact list, and more. It's easy to become a victim of bluesnarfing attack if you have the habit of using Bluetooth in public places and you phone is usually in discoverable mode.

### Bluejacking
**Bluejacking** is a term used for sending of unauthorized messages to another Bluetooth device. This involves sending a message as phonebook contact. 

The attacker then sends the message to the possible recipient via Bluetooth. Originally, this involved sending text messages, but more recent phones can send images or audio as well. A popular variant of this is the transmission of “shock” images, featuring disturbing or crude photos. As Bluetooth is a short-range protocol, the attack and victim must be within roughly 10 yards of each other. The victim’s phone must also have Bluetooth enabled and must be in discoverable mode. On some early phones, this was the default configuration, and while it makes connecting external devices easier, it also allows attacks against the phone. If Bluetooth is turned off, or if the device is set to non-discoverable, bluejacking can be avoided.

Bluejacking can be prevented by setting a device to hidden, invisible or non-discoverable mode.

### Disassociation
It is a type of DoS attack in which the attacker breaks the wireless connection between the victim device and the access point. The method is based on the use of special disassociation frame specified under the IEEE 802.11. Transferring such frames to the target device breaks the connection, and the Wi-Fi protocol does not require any encryption for it. For a successful attack, the cyber-criminal needs to know only the victim's MAC address.

These kinds of attacks are not typically used alone. For instance, if you disassociate a connection and then sniff the re-connection, you can steal passwords. After a machine is disassociated, the use attempting to reestablish a WPA/WPA2/WPA3 session will need to repeat the four-way handshake.

Tool such as **Wifiphisher** are used to collect passwords.

### Jamming
**Jamming** is a form of DoS that specifically targets the radio spectrum aspect of wireless. Just as other DoS attacks can manipulate things behind the scenes, so can jamming on wireless AP, enabling action such as attaching to a rogue AP.

### Radio frequency identification (RFID)
 RFID tags are a type of tracking system that uses radio frequency to search, identify, track and communicate with items and people. These tags come in several different forms and can be classified as either active or passive. **Active tags** are a power source, while **passive tags** utilize the RF energy transmitted to them for power.

RFID tags have multiple security concerns. First and foremost, because they are connected via RF energy, physical security is a challenge.

Several different attack types can be performed against RFID systems:
- Against the RFID devices themselves (the chips and readers).
- Against the communication channel between the device and the reader. This kind of attack is relatively easy because the radio frequencies are known and devices exist to interface with tags.
- Against the reader and back-end system. 

The two main attacks are replay and eavesdropping. In a replay attack, the RFID information is recorded and then replayed later. In the case of eavesdropping, the data can be collected, monitoring the movements of tags for whatever purpose needed by an unauthorized party. 

Furthermore, MiTM attacks are possible, as they would be a combination of sniffing (eavesdropping) action followed by a replay (spoofing) attack. With this information the RFID tag can be cloned, if not protected via cryptographic component.

### Near-field communication (NFC)
**NFC** is a short-range wireless connectivity technology that uses magnetic field induction to enable communication between devices when they're touched together or brought within a few centimeters of each other. This includes authenticating credit cards, enabling physical access, transferring small files and jump starting more capable wireless links.

Now that this technology has become the mainstream method of making payments via mobile phones, it is becoming ubiquitous, and in many cases is connected directly to financial information. Therefore, the importance of understanding and protecting this communication channel is paramount.

>**NOTE**: It is important to know that RFID is a process by which a credit card or phone communicates with a reader using radio waves and that NFC is a high-frequency subset of RFID and acts over a much shorter distance.

### Initialization Vector(IV)
It is used to avoid repetition during the data encryption process, making it impossible for hackers who use dictionary attack to decrypt the exchange encrypted message by discovering. IV is used in wireless systems as the randomization element at the beginning of a connection.


## On-path attacks(MiTM, MiTB)
A **man in the middle** attack, as the name implies, generally occurs when an attacker is able to place himself in the middle of two other hosts that are communicating. This is done so that the traffic of the two victims will pass through the attacker. The attacker can then observe all traffic before relaying it and can actually modify or block traffic.
## Layer 2 attacks
### Address Resolution
### Protocol (ARP) poisoning
### Media access control (MAC) flooding
### Mac cloning

## Domain name system(DNS)
### Domain hijacking
### DNS poisoning
### Uniform Resource
### Locator (URL) redirection
### Domain reputation
## Distributed denial-of-service(DDoS)
### Network
### Application
### Operational Technology(OT)
## Malicious code or script execution
### Powershell
### Python
### Bash
### Macros
### Visual Basic Application