```toc
```
## RE | Malware | Suspicious file analysis
- **Olevba** -> olevba is a script to parse OLE and OpenXML files such as MS Office documents. (e.g. Word, Excel), to extract VBA Macro code in clear text, deobfuscate. and analyze malicious macros. XLM/Excel 4 Macros are also supported in Excel and SLK files. OLE is **a mechanism that allows users to create and edit documents containing items or "objects" created by multiple applications**.
- **Anyrun** -> Interactive malware Hunting service · TRUSTED BY · Innovative cloud-based sandbox with full interactive access · Track behavior activities in Real-time
- **Virustotal**
- **oledump** -> oledump.py is a program to analyze OLE files ([Compound File Binary Format](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compound_File_Binary_Format)). These files contain streams of data. oledump allows you to analyze these streams.
- **Pdf Parser** -> A PDF parser, or [PDF scraper](https://nanonets.com/pdf-scraper?&utm_source=nanonets.com%2Fblog%2F&utm_medium=blog&utm_content=PDF%20Parser%20%7C%20What%20is%20a%20PDF%20Parser?), is a tool that [extracts data from PDF](https://nanonets.com/blog/extract-data-from-pdf/) documents. Document parsing is a popular approach to extract text, images or data from inaccessible formats such as PDFs.
- **Ghidra** -> Ghidra is a free and open source reverse engineering tool developed by the National Security Agency of the United States.
- **Uncompile**
- **Browserling**
- **VMRay**
- **Cuckoo Sandbox**
- **JoeSandbox**
- **Hybrid Analysis**

## CTF Tools used
- **Binwalk**[file analysis] -> is a tool for searching a given binary image for embedded files and executable code. [Stego]
- **Brupsuite**[Web] -> Web vulnerability scanner.
- **Postman**[Web] -> Postman is an application used for **API testing**. It is an HTTP client that tests HTTP requests, utilizing a graphical user interface, through which we obtain different types of responses that need to be subsequently validated.
- **Curl command**[Web] -> cURL, which stands for client URL, is a command line tool that developers use **to transfer data to and from a server**. At the most fundamental, cURL lets you talk to a server by specifying the location (in the form of a URL) and the data you want to send.
- **Pwntools**[pwn] -> is a CTF framework and exploit development library. Written in Python, it is designed for rapid prototyping and development, and intended to make exploit writing as simple as possible.
- **peedf**[file analysis]. Is a Python tool to explore PDF files in order to find out if the file can be harmful or not. The aim of this tool is to provide all the necessary components that a security researcher could need in a PDF analysis without using 3 or 4 tools to make all the tasks. 
- **Foremost**[file extraction]. is a forensic program to recover lost files based on their headers, footers, and internal data structures. Foremost can work on image files, such as those generated by *dd*, *Safeback*, *Encase*, *dmp*, etc, or directly on a drive. 
- **jsunpack-n**. sunpack-n emulates browser functionality when visiting a URL. It's purpose is to detect exploits that target browser and browser plug-in vulnerabilities. [read usage here question 15](https://mmox.me/posts/writeups/bankingtroubles-memory-image-forensics/) [Download here](https://github.com/urule99/jsunpack-n)
- **dogbolt**[decompiler]. Is an interactive online decompiler which shows equivalent c-like output of decompiled programs fro many popular decompilers.
- **godbolt**[compiler]. is an interactive online compiler which shows the assembly output of compiled C++, Rust, Go(and many more) code.

#### 
- [SqureX](https://sqrx.com/) These include a  web app that allows to view suspicious files safely, view links safely with their secure browser, and also email protection. No download, just use the web app. 

### CTF Writeups | For reference
- [Banking Troubles](https://mmox.me/posts/writeups/bankingtroubles-memory-image-forensics/)


## OSINT TOOLS
- [Getting Info From Phone Numbers](https://medium.com/system-weakness/track-anyone-with-just-a-phone-number-osint-investigation-a7f50f5f660d)
- 