```toc
```
## Actors and threats
**Threats** are actions that can results in a risk to a system. A **Threat Actor** is the source of the threat on the system. Deliberately accessing computer  systems and networks without authorization is generally referred as *hacking* and the individuals who conduct this activity are called *hackers*.

### Advanced persistent threat (APT)
These are adversaries that posses a sophisticated level of expertise and significant resource which allow it to create opportunities to achieve its objectives by using multiple attack vectors like cyber, physical, and deception.

### Insider Threats
This is a threat or a security risk that originates from within the targeted organization. It is usually a current or former employee or business associate who has access to sensitive information or privileged accounts within the network of an organization and misuses this access.

**Types of Insider Threats**
- **Malicious insider**. also known as *Turncloak*, someone who maliciously and intentionally abuses legitimate credentials.
- **Careless insider**. an innocent pawn who unknowingly exposes the system to outside threats.
- **A mole**. an imposter who is technically an outsider but has managed to gain insider access to a privileged network. This is someone from outside the organization who poses as an employee or partner.

### State actors
These  are elite hackers that are state sponsored. They are capable of writing scripts that exploit vulnerabilities but are also capable of discovering new vulnerabilities.

State actors are employed by governments to compromise or gain access to the intelligence data of targeted governments. Some are employed in major cybersecurity firms in an effort to combat criminal activity.

### Hacktivists
**Hacktivism** is the act of hacking, or breaking into a computer system, for politically or socially motivated purposes. The individual who performs this act is called a **Hacktavist.**

Hacktivist groups may include script kiddies, but in general script kiddies do not have the skills to participate in a meaningful manner in advancing a hacktivist cause, although they may be enlisted as ground troops to add volume to an attack.

### Script Kiddies
These are individuals who do not have the technical expertise to develop scripts or discover new vulnerabilities in software, but have enough understanding of computer systems to be able to download and run scripts that others developed.

### Criminal Syndicates
This is an organized group of criminals that is composed of individuals with different skills sets, such as hackers, programmers, IT engineers, tech bandits, etc. They combine their skills and resources to commit major crimes that might not otherwise be possible.

Attacks by criminal organizations usually are categorized in the **structured threat category**

### Hackers
These are individuals who spent time trying to figure out how something worked so that they could control it in ways it wasn't designed for.
#### White Hat
These are hackers who have authorization from the company to hack their network with the hopes to find vulnerabilities and patch them before the real bad guys find them.

#### Black Hat
These are individuals who attack a company with unauthorized access. They are the ones who conduct illegal and criminal activities. There are many different motivations behind black hat hackers, but in the end, they are performing activities that are illegal.

#### Gray Hat
These are hackers who do a bit of both, white hat and black hat. They may use their skills for good at their day job and use their skills illegally at other times like when at home.

### Shadow IT

### Competitors
## Attributes of actors
### Internal/external
### Level of sophistication/capability
### Resources/funding
### Intent/motivation
## Vectors
### Direct access
### Wireless
### Email
### Supply chain
### Social Media
### Removable media
### Cloud
## Threat Intelligence sources
### OSINT
### Closed/proprietary
### Vulnerability databases
### Public/private information sharing centers
### Dark web
### Indicators of compromise
### Automated indicator sharing (AIS)
#### Structured threat information exchange(STIX)/Trusted automated exchange of indicator information (TAXII)
### Predictive Analysis
### Threat maps
### File/code repositories
## Research sources
### Vendor websites
### Vulnerability feeds
### Conferences
### Academic journals
### Request for comments (RFC)
### Local industry groups
### Social Media
### Threat feeds
### Adversary tactics, techniques and procedures (TTP)